Coaching is a powerful technique
that managers can use to engage their teams,
facilitate deeper learning,
and encourage professional development.
But coaching may not be what you think it is.
Coaching is not the same thing as teaching,
and a coach does not serve in the role
of the expert in a coaching session.
So what is coaching then?
What's involved?
And what strategies can you use to be an effective coach?
Let's start with the basics.
Coaching is a collaborative process
in which managers and team members work together
to discuss goals,
identify opportunities for improvement,
and create action plans for problem solving
or professional development.
In a coaching relationship,
the individual is the expert of their own situation.
The coach is merely a facilitator
who's there to ask probing questions and solicit new ideas
or insights from the individual.
They don't tell an individual what to do
or how to think.
That's why coaching can create
a greater sense of ownership and empowerment.
The individual is ultimately responsible
for coming up with the ideas and making the decisions.
So what's involved in coaching
and how do you become a better coach?
Coaching isn't always a clear-cut process.
It involves asking a lot of probing questions,
listening, summarizing, and observing patterns.
Having a coaching model or framework
can help bring structure or clarity
to your coaching conversations.
The GROW coaching model is a great place to start.
It was developed by business coaches,
Graham Alexander, Alan Fine, and Sir John Whitmore.
Here's how it works.
The G in GROW stands for setting a goal.
That means you'll start each coaching session
by asking the individual to set a goal
or clear objective for your time together.
So you might ask,
"What would you like to get out of this coaching session?
"What's the next professional goal
"that you're working toward?
"What skill do you want to develop?"
or "What's been holding you back?"
Next, the R in GROW stands for examine the current reality.
After a goal is set,
coaches should invite the individual
to describe their current performance
or current context and situation.
Try asking questions like,
"What steps have you already taken?
"What's your current process?
"What are your current constraints?"
You might also ask,
"Describe your current performance or situation."
Encourage your team member
to be accurate in their descriptions not judgemental.
You both need to understand the current situation
before you can change it.
Third, the O in GROW stands for explore options.
Your goal in this step is to solicit ideas
from the individual on all of the possible ways
that they might achieve their goal.
Challenge them to generate as many options as possible.
No idea is a bad one at this stage.
So you might ask,
"What steps could you take to achieve this goal?
"What else could you do?"
and, "What would you need to start
"or stop doing to accomplish X?"
Last but not least, the W in GROW stands for
determine the way forward.
That means you need to encourage the individual
to select a solution and then develop
an action plan for implementing it.
Questions that can help you in this step include,
"What option will give you the best results?
"What option sounds most effective and realistic to you?
"What would you need to do to make this happen?
"How will you define success?
"What resources do you need?"
and "When will you make it happen?"
One more time,
the GROW model of coaching stands for
set a goal,
examine the current reality,
explore options,
and determine the way forward.
So the next time a team member comes to you
for the answer or direction,
try out the GROW model of coaching.
It's a great way to help your team cultivate
the confidence, skills, and thought processes
they need to make decisions
and solve problems independently.